hey this is pressure Locker an evil
warden hold view prisoner but offers you
a chance to escape there are three doors
a B and C two of the doors lead to
freedom and the third door leads to
lifetime imprisonment but you do not
know which door is what type you're
allowed to point to a door and ask a
single yes/no question to the warden if
you point to a door that leads to
freedom the warden does answer your
question truthfully but if you point to
the door that lead to imprisonment the
warden answers your question randomly
either saying yes or no by chance can
you think of a question and figure out a
way to escape for sure give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution
so here's a way that you can escape for
sure point to door a and ask the
question does door B lead to freedom if
the warden answers yet then pick door B
if the warden answer's no then pick door
C this strategy is guaranteed to work
regardless of the door type of a so why
does it work let's work through the
logic door a can either have two
different types it can either lead to
freedom in which case the warden is
truthful or it could lead to
imprisonment in which case the warden
answers randomly let's consider the
first case that the door leads to
freedom in this case if the warden
answers yes to your question then that
means the warden is answering truthfully
and door B does lead to freedom some
release if the warden says door B does
not lead to freedom the warden is
answering truthfully which means door B
leads to imprisonment that means the
other door door feeds leads to freedom
you can see that if the warden answers
yes you should pick door B and if the
warden answer's no then you should pick
door speed but what about the case word
or a lead to imprisonment and the warden
answers randomly well in this case if
door a leads to imprisonment that means
the other two doors B and C lead to
freedom you can always pick doors B and
C in these cases no matter what the
warden answers so if you pick door B
when the warden answers yes that will
lead to freedom and if you pick door C
on the warden answer's no that once
again will lead to freedom so this show
Liz that logically if you pick your B
when the warden answers yes and if you
picked or C when the warden answers no
you are guaranteed to find a door that
leads you to freedom did you figure it
out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can catch
around my blogs mind your decisions that
you can follow on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can catch me on social media
a pressure Locker if you like this video
please check out my book there are links
in the video description